today's talk is very controversial okay
you're not gonna get a cardiologist
talking about not eating and fasting so
this is the unusual but this is breaking
ground because we are always looking for new
ways to treat all diseases. 

Treating
diseases for illness nature has to book
something in there people got better
people got ill people got better some
people of course died but there must be
mechanisms built into the body that make
you better and what I'm trying to do
here is to tap into nature to see if
there's anything in fasting. 

First I
heard about it going through medical
school as a fasting can't be fasting
can't work fasting obviously does
nothing people don't eat because they
didn't have food
the faster because the priests told him
not to fast they were fasting because
they had seven children and food for
only five but the more I studied it and
looking at the biochemistry being a
scientist I got to substantiate a lot of
the things that I say and if I'm going
to look at the mechanisms I can't just
come up with them I got a look at the
biochemistry behind it so what I've done
here is I've made a summary pretty much
and I have no slice today because I was
in surgery right now until late
afternoon and never got a chance to
finish off my slides but I promise you
all that just like the last two ones
this is being recorded and we'll put the
slides in later on maybe in the next
week and then we'll put it up as a
proper slide presentation with the
lecture in the background so it'll be
just like the previous ones I hope you
all enjoyed the previous two that are
already on YouTube
so so with fasting if we look back in
history we've been fasting all along and
Socrates was asked why he fasted and he
fasted for mental clarity so do you get
mental clarity when you fast well he
certainly did and yet the prevailing
wisdom is that when you're fast oh I'm
gonna get sleepy I'm gonna get tired I
need energy and eat this energy bars
there's those little drinks energy
drinks and when you drink that you're
supposed to get energy and it's not true
when you go and take a candy or an
energy bar you suddenly feel great
that's because you're a junkie
you just got your high you just took a
shot that boosted your your brains
dopamine levels and you went to the
reward center and that's what you felt
better because you are a sugar junkie
that's why you felt good because
biochemically there's no parameter that
is measured in that patient to say that
yep he's lacking energy and now he took
this shot whatever it was with it's
those energy shots or an energy bar and
now he feels great so something's
changed none this has been shown in
animals in human beings clearly there's
no biochemical change going on
none whatsoever it's all in here it's
mental so what happens is that when you
issue the junkie whenever you eat sugar
or simple carbohydrates and you get that
high it goes to the dopamine center in
the brain produces all that dope in
citywards Center and you get addicted to
it and then you need it and then you
feel better when you take it so when you
are fasting also you're feeling tired
and fatigued and it's there are reasons
for that but taking another shot of
sugar or taking another candy is not the
solution it's nothing to do with that
it's the reward center and eventually
after a few days you will come out of
that habit just like you take an
alcoholic and stick him in a room
they can't drink anymore after a few
days you won't crave anymore it's your
craving
it's your craving so one thing is a
biochemical craving the second thing is
your Pavlovian reflexes where it's 12
o'clock you got to go down to the
doctors lounge
you gotta eat are you hungry no I'm not
hungry but I gotta eat
it's time to eat it's evening I have to
eat I'm not hungry but I have to eat so
a lot of our behavior is incongruent of
physiology our brain has interfered our
mind has interfered with our body and we
stopped listening to our body why did we
stop listening to the body because you
were told to stop listening to your body
by who were you told the press the media
people around you maybe your parents
maybe your friends and you gotta eat
five times a day five times a day maybe
six times a day you gotta eat
this knowledge is totally false you
don't have to eat six times a day you
don't need to have that calorie input
all the time this is not right Oh
breakfast is the best the most important
meal of today it's not it's not the most
nutritious meal of the day is the meal
that you have that's it end of story
but if you want to create a special
breakfast meal
you're gonna develop a cereal and you're
gonna say this is special breakfast food
almost sounds like dog food right
create this food for the dogs now you
got a special food for breakfast you
don't need a special breakfast food
especially one that's full of calories
and sugar and is totally processed
completely so so really they've been a
lot of myths about this so going back in
history men only so first of all I wanna
tell that you are all very old all of
you extremely old and how old are you
really well you know about two and a
half million years old yes that's pretty
old and about twelve thousand years ago
you changed and you started going into
agriculture so until then you are a
Paleolithic being when you eat mostly
meat some vegetables that you found and
drank lots of water and when you are
Paleolithic being none of you are such
fantastic hunters that you could hunt
and eat and kill every three hours so
for all those years millions of years
right you generated a genetics that
genetics is what you still have found
because it was evolved over two and a
half million years so in the last twelve
thousand years you became more
intelligent and started agriculture so
now your food changed so when you into
agriculture did your genetics keep up
with your two and a half million years
of genetic change hardly because it
takes another two and a half million
years to develop a new genetic package
you did not change genetically as your
diet change but you continued to be an
agricultural society because the
population grew and was hard and harder
so agriculture is easy and easier and
then in the last 200 years you change
your diet again now you are
industrialized and now you start eating
processed foods vegetables seed oils I
told you about that before in a previous
lecture
totally processed you need mass
some factories to produce vegetable seed
oils it is so processed and yet now we
consume that like it's going out of
style all of you consume vegetable seed
oils whether you like it or not because
it's in all processed foods and yet that
food if you look at your entire
evolution as 24 hours that food only
came to you in the last 10 milliseconds
how do you expect your body to respond
genetically and hormonal e to that food
that you only just introduced to your
genetics so before you put anything new
in your mouth you got to decide that is
this in keeping with my genetics so
really this is very thought-provoking
even agricultural products it's very
thought-provoking agricultural products
are fine but what did we do with them in
the year 1880 we invented the steel mill
and we made the flour and when we made
flour we changed the glycemic index of
the food completely completely and that
was a study that I talked to you about
before so we've changed as we've moved
along so our diets have completely
changed the Paleolithic being 8 maybe
once a day and he ate during the day
time by the way because if we try to eat
at night time where the caucus is
outside the hyenas or some other animal
will want to share that with you
probably make you their meal as well
that night then you have to crawl into
your cage I mean into your cave you
gotta crawl into your cave and stay
there and don't come out to drink water
either but nobody take the bottled water
with us to bed so our body is made to
fast and is made to feast and I will
convince you tonight that you should be
fasting and feasting as well because if
there was no food around and if your
sugar just went down down down down down
your energy down went downtown that
we'll be dead in 24 hours because you're
going to your cam and you'll just crawl
in and you just gonna get terrible
because Nature doesn't give you any way
to come back or there's been no food for
24 hours I'm just gonna crawl here I
have no energy I have no nothing I'm
just gonna crawl and die but no that
does not happen to you fasting doesn't
kill people and in fact I asked you to
fast all the time and I asked you to
come for a stress test you don't come on
the stresses and die so so this we are
used to fasting and we do it
and when you're sick you fast don't you
when you have the flu you don't eat when
your pets are sick didn't eat you don't
see your dog running and eating his food
and his sake he stays in the corner and
he does not eat there's a wisdom in that
and that wisdom is the physiology the
physiology of the body is saying that he
knows you know eating is dangerous
eating takes up a lot of energy eating
takes up if you put in about a hundred
calories of food into your body it takes
about 60 to 70 calories of your body to
digest that food and then you get a
little excess so eating is an energy
consuming activity but most of us don't
think of it I read you just in that all
that eating is gonna go right in and do
me all that good a lot of energy that
goes into it
eating is dangerous
it's true eating is dangerous so once in
a while when you donate Nature has put
into you a biochemistry so let's let's
just dive right into that biochemistry a
little bit so the first thing that's
gonna happen is that you stop eating in
the first 12 hours your body's gonna say
hmm no food coming out it's gonna wipe
up all the glycogen that is in your
liver and in your muscles that's a
normal process it's going to use
glycogen so your sugar level or your
glucose levels will be maintained what
about protein you got plenty protein in
your body
what about vitamins you got at least a
month's worth of vitamins in your body
what about energy how much fat do I have
do you know that I have in effect in my
body to last me at least 40 days so I
have plenty energy in me I have about
50,000 calories stored inside me which
can be used but I need to unlock those
calories in the form of fat so you eat
you store in the form of fat and that
fat should be utilized now so for the
first 12 hours I'm not going to use the
fact I'm going to use up my glycogen
stores how am I gonna feel I'm gonna
feel okay
unless I'm a junkie then I'm gonna want
to eat you know that's junk enos because
your sugar will never drop I'm gonna say
that again your sugar will never drop
you can fast for seven days your blood
sugar will come down but you will not
become hypoglycemic and have an attack
unless you're on insulin or you're
taking diabetes medications so how does
the body keep the sugar but I told you
that in the first 12 hours you get
glycogen after 12 hours what happens you
get gluconeogenesis that means new
glucose is being made gluconeogenesis
whereas that glucose come from that
comes into the bloodstream where does it
come from comes from protein but it's
not the protein in the muscles protein
is always being turned over in your body
but this time the protein that's
normally gonna turn over turns into blue
so your glucose level is maintained for
another 12 hours or so during this next
12 hours as a small increase in ketosis
so let me explain ketosis to you where
does that come from so what happens is
that the body senses that you have very
little food coming in and I'm going to
explain to you how that happens how does
the body know that there's no food it's
not just the sugar I will explain this
juice not sugar so what happens is that
now the fats in your body say okay we
are here utilize us the only way fat can
come into utilization is the insulin
levels must drop so the insulin levels
are now low because you're not eating
when your insulin level is high you
store energy when your insulin levels
are low you pull energy out of the fats
so now through the hormonal action of
you know hormone sensitive lipase and
the action of LPL what happens at fat
stores open up because your insulin
level is low so the fats start being
devoured the fat gets converted to
triglycerides
and fatty acids the fatty acids flood
the bloodstream you can utilize fatty
acids so they go to your liver and in
the liver your fatty acids get converted
to ketones there's two ketones
beta-hydroxybutyrate acid and acetone
acetic acid these two ketones now go up
ketones can be utilized by the body and
this is the great breakthrough that I
want to tell you that ketones can be
utilized by every cell of your body
including your brain you are told that
the brain is an obligate glucose
utilizer can only utilize glucose it's
absolutely wrong there was a study done
in Britain where what they did is that
they brought the blood sugar down to 30
but they pump
full of ketones and we were all sitting
and talking and having fun and not a
sweat the only one that was sweating was
the doctors the blood sugar you should
be having convulsion is the brain can
utilize ketones after a seven-day fast
70 per-- 70% of the energy utilization
of the brain is through ketones and the
brain likes it
and there's even studies to show that
when the brain utilizes the ketones it
actually is a cleaner burn it burns more
cleanly so what happens if there's a
slow increase in the ketones which
actually starts around 18 hours and
gradually goes up up up up up up
so by 24 hours you have some ketones
maybe 10 15 % of your entire energy
source is now gonna be ketones how are
you gonna feel with ketones just fine no
problem you feel you feel okay because
ketones are giving you all the energy
that you need then let's say another 12
hours go by so you know at the 35 hours
let's say now the ketones go even higher
and higher and higher and by 3 days
you're Peter mills are really beginning
to get even better and even higher so by
the fifth day of fasting you will have a
lot of Tito's now you can measure your
ketones in your urine so you get a
little dipstick and you can buy this by
the way it only costs a few dollars and
you just test your urine to see when you
become ketogenic and you can test it now
if you've been on a low-carb diet low
sugar diet you will go into ketogenesis
earlier than somebody who eats a lot of
sugar because it's got a whole bunch of
glycogen in his liver because you got to
remember go through the glycogen first
before you start burning ketones so
someone who's on a very low carb diet
he's going to kill us in Genesis much
faster so he's the ketones and the
kiddos will keep getting utilized the
fats will keep burning soon
are you doing the right arithmetic that
okay fine I've used up my current
accounts I'm going to my deposit account
now and I'm drawing money from my
deposit account now what what prevents
us all from utilizing my deposit account
its insulin because I told you instant
holds the key to opening up the fence
doors so you want to utilize your fat
stores you have to drop your insulin
levels now how am I gonna drop your fill
your insulin is right now there's only
one way for me to drop your insulin
levels and that's to put you on a
fascinating program so now you choose
which fasting program you want to be on
do you want to do alternative a fasting
do you want to do 18 hour fast do you
want to do a three day fast I mean how
do you want to do this and that's
something we'll talk about and see what
can but what am I saying here what's the
trigger here which is which is a hormone
in the body that's the elephant in the
room
it's insulin just like my last talk I
told you about do you see how it's all
coming together
the fats the sugar the weight the
fasting it's all insulin it's all about
insulin you don't so somebody who's
taking insulin show me somebody who
takes incident every day and oh yeah I
can lose weight just like that they
can't lose weight they cannot I've done
it I've given insulin for 25 years to my
patients and I yelled at them and
nothing happens so long as the insulin
levels are high they cannot lose weight
and let me tell you something else the
mortality is also higher now them to
attack two diabetics okay not type 1
diabetics type 1 diabetics are used in
deficient and they need the insulin
replacement but type 2 diabetics already
have a high insulin level and they have
insulin resistance so the instant is
already high and now you're giving them
more insulin and that is only gonna hurt
the patient even more but you're a 1 C
would look better and your glucose will
be lower but show me the data that your
survival is gonna be paralyzed show me
that you're gonna get less sales Imus
show me that you're gonna get less
inflammation in your body coronary
artery disease
rates it's all about the insulin guys is
all about the insulin so you got to in a
chronic said nobody in the hospital and
you're having DK or some other medical
problems that you having surgery and
you're getting on steroids and your
sugar levels are high
I'll give you an insulin but that's a
temporary thing to bring it down because
I want your sugar levels to be ideal
while I'm doing surgery on you because
high sugar levels mean poor recovery so
I want your ideal sugar levels but
that's a different story
I am talking about people who have high
insulin levels because of insulin
resistance and you cannot give them more
insulin so you must get your insulin
level down I don't have a drug to give
you to bring your insulin level down but
fasting will bring your instant level
down because if you don't eat you're not
going to make insulin now what's gonna
happen is that as your instant level
drops and it's nice and low your body
will become sensitive to the insulin
just like when any level goes down with
them system it when there's too much of
it your receptors down regulates I'm not
going to respond to this so after you
eat in a normal state you produce a lot
of incident let's say now that you've
been down for a good period of time
let's say I'm gonna give an example 24
hours your insulin levels have been low
now you eat that next meal you're only
gonna make this much insulin you can
make a much less amount of insulin so
your body is gonna deal with that meal
differently then had you eaten in a fed
state so eating after a fast is
metabolized totally different than
eating in an fed state it's much more
forgiving to you and what's going to
happen is that you produce less and less
insulin even in the next few days after
your fasted one day look at the rewards
I'm telling you about
you ought to diet at least one day where
you don't eat anything because it will
give you a sustained benefit for days
because the instant sensitivity is going
to be improved so what happens here is
that insulin stays nice and low your
body becomes more sensitive to
the insulin produces less insulin so you
you're not locking the fat stores in
keep burning fat which is what you want
to do so here's a reason to fast if
you're overweight do you want to get rid
of the fat fine this is the way to do it
well why don't you just do caloric
restriction so still eat five times a
day but it's more amounts you cannot do
that you lose a little bit but you lose
much more muscle and you lose some fat
you will feel miserable your metabolic
rate will go down and your body resets
itself and you'll gain all that weight
right back again because that's not
natural because when you are a
Paleolithic me you didn't just go and
never let the carcass and say okay I'll
come back here and eat five times a
night you don't do that it's just
totally unnatural to do that and the
body's physiology is in keeping with
that so the biochemist just telling me
the same thing that you are you not
supposed to do that so you're supposed
to eat eat when the food is available
which is usually once a day now let's
say what other benefit am I gonna get
besides the insulin and utilizing the
fact well the body says that okay this
poor person hasn't had a kill today so
he's calling to his cage well I got to
get him out of there can I get him out
by decreasing his metabolic rate no I
increase his metabolic rate how do I do
that after a fast or during that fast
especially after 18 hours your
epinephrine levels increase your
adrenaline levels go up your cortisol
levels go up your metabolic rate goes up
you start feeling better more
bushy-tailed bright-eyed because you're
looking for your next kill because if
you walk out there with your eyes how
droopy you're gonna see the kill
the deal will roll walk right by you and
you won't have any energy to chase it
but now you full up you pumped up your
metabolic rate is high you more alert
you awake and you will get you killed
there's another thing that happens when
you're fast you produce a stuff called B
brain-derived neurotropic factor so what
happens is that the body starts
producing a hormone that goes to your
brain and tells your brain switch on and
you actually make new brain cells you
actually make new brain cells show me a
drug that's gonna make new brain cells
so in a fasting situation make new brain
cells because nature wants to teach you
that the cell you got into the situation
learn from it
remember it and now get out and get
another kill see it makes you better it
makes your brain better what else does a
fasting do growth hormone so do you know
how much growth hormone costs a small
point one injection is about $400 point
one point one is four hundred dollars
it's so expensive right but did you know
that if you're fast just a one and a
half to two days there's a two day fast
in the study a two day fast produced a
two thousand percent increase in your
growth hormone production in a man and
1300 in a woman so it is the best way to
boost your growth hormone level now why
would I want growth hormone because
growth hormone is the hormone that keeps
you young
it's a growth hormone that makes your
skin matter that replaces the dead parts
better and you muscles grow so your
muscles actually grow so you do you do
10 reps you're gonna put on more muscle
than if your growth hormone is low
growth hormone is low you could be
pumping iron all day long and you'll
just get 80 muscles but you will not
grow muscles to grow muscles you need
growth alone you want to stay younger
you
growth hormone now there is a condition
called adult growth hormone deficiency
and of course children have it too and
they have short stature and slow growth
etc and in adults is a similar one and
it manifests itself as an elderly person
who is just his muscles are all wasted
he's got no energy he's got a blank in
his in his eye all the time he's just
can't think and he's very weak
he's just sitting around you met his
growth hormone level it's very low you
gave him some growth hormone
he feels not better but the problem with
exogenously Moniz has no side effects so
that's why right now it's not approved
by the FDA for me to give people growth
hormone but the best way to give
yourself growth hormone is to do one
fast do one fats and your growth
hormones will go up what else happens
when you're fasting so growth home and I
told you about 20 24 to 48 hours if you
really want to get the full benefit of
growth hormone now there's a condition
called etapa G I'm gonna explain to a
toughie G is a tompa G starts actually
at about 18 hours and then gradually
increases and it's maximum at 3 days it
sounds terrible it's not fair but you
know what even if I get some etapa G
after 24 hours I'll be very very very
happy by phone a maximized merit RPG
I'll go for a three day fast so let me
explain what a Tophet is a tapa G the
Nobel Prize winner got it you got or two
years ago the price on the top of G so
what happens in the topic is that when
you are nutrient deficient like this the
body senses that there's no nutrients
coming in and there's a thin thing
called M tall M 2 levels go really
really low this is a a protein kinase in
the body and it goes really really low
and that turns on a toffee G what turns
off Futaba G is M 2 levels are high what
causes M 2 levels to go high is eating
mostly proteins
so let's come back again to a top of you
so what a tapa G does is that it takes
your cells and the cell has a
lipoprotein membrane around it and
there's all the intracellular organelles
in it but in the course of time those
cells the intracellular organelles some
of them become redundant there's protein
lying around this whenever this work
there's gonna be garbage
so there are old intracellular
organelles and some proteinaceous
materials that are just lying on in the
cytoplasm so the body says I need energy
recycle I need to recycle so the first
thing it does the cell stays alive and
it takes those intracellular organelles
breaks them down packages them into the
lysosome and digests it breaks it down
into its pieces so whether it's the
sarcoplasmic reticulum or other
intracellular organelles breaks them all
down and exports it out of the cell
once it's exported from the cell into
the bloodstream the bloodstream says aha
I've got some new building blocks now
and the body he utilizes that okay so
the body now starts utilizing your
interest cellular organelles so you're
recycling yourself so your cell is
doesn't die it goes into a state of
recycling and you recycle your
mitochondria as well so mitochondria
lots because there's a lot of oxidative
stress going on in the mitochondria so
what happens is that it that cell is now
going to be deplete of its old
non-functional parts and then when you
do it guess what we get to be repaired
first all those organelles so you
basically rejuvenate yourselves now if
you're constantly eating you will not
rejuvenate those cells and the
biochemistry is so beautiful that these
cells now are functioning better the
younger and they are going to last
the more resilient also to disease I'll
come to that in a minute
so a tapa G makes yourselves better
younger restoration it's like it's like
a reset switch so how do this organized
redo themselves
well they reboot themselves because when
you then eat because you've had a tapa G
a signal goes from those cells to the
bone marrow to say hey listen I used up
my intracellular organelles when you get
new ones new supplies send them to me
so the bone marrow when you eat makes
stem cells have you ever stem cells now
cost you million dollars just go out and
get some now cost you a whole lot of
money and it won't work because when you
inject stem cells from the outside the
residence rates are wrong because they
didn't get the message of where to go to
it's all artificial so it doesn't know
so the brain look I injected brain stem
cells in the heart and pages about
cutting functions I was here doing the
study upstairs and what was the
residence rate residence it is how many
of the stem cells actually ended up in
the muscle where I wanted it to stay and
repair the heart less than 0.1% did the
ejection prices go up no change in
ejection fraction so injecting stem
cells from the outside does nothing for
you it was good to study with brain stem
cells and it still is for the reason
that you need to harness nature's way of
giving your stem cells you want to stem
cell transplant right now you're gonna
fast it's the fastest way to increase
your stem cells so these stem cells come
out of the bone marrow
it's called refeeding reward and they go
into the into the organs and replenish
cells that have died and change the
machinery in those cells as well so
there's a whole rejuvenation process you
are a younger better more resilient
person than you were before and this is
all been documented over and over again
but there's no industry that's
gonna support me because there's no
financial gain if you get better and
younger and live longer because there's
no one there to make money out of no one
makes money when you fast they lose
money so boost your growth hormone
boosts your butt boost your stem cells
this has been well-documented not only
in humans in animals still well
documented over and over again it's just
that nobody's ever heard of it anyone
thinks that all fasting is just fasting
a starvation is no good but there's so
much science behind this so the next
benefit of course is stem cell
mobilization that occurs and to get the
maximum benefit of that you can't just
do you know overnight fast no you really
need to fast because for the bone marrow
to say I'm gonna come in and replace you
got to really have reached that point of
replacement so you can't you can't speed
it up either so the question is can I do
a three day fast of course I can do a
three day fast you got to prepare
yourself mentally you got to prepare
yourself physically for the environment
make sure that you know you you know you
you you with your best friends an
environment
and you got to have water so that you
don't get dehydrated so you can do it
all of us can do it so you can fast for
different reasons so when would I want a
toffee gee I would want to talk with you
one just to live longer number two let
me tell you something if you do a
seven-day water fast
the studies done in Boston at the
University showed that your lifetime
probability of getting cancer is reduced
by more than 70% some studies even
higher because the cells that are gonna
die off in this date of the fast of the
real cancer cells because your cancer
cells look you don't do a PET scan on
you I'm gonna give you a radioactive
materials of glucose in it oh excuse me
the glucose is really low and the
insulin level is very low so the
nutrients that the cancer cells want are
not there
cancer cells do die off so let's talk
about cancer for a second
so the studies have been done and if you
fast a person only for 36 hours that's
it and then give them chemotherapy in
that state they're gonna tolerate the
chemotherapy better they're gonna have
less side effects from the chemotherapy
it's gonna be death of cancer cells and
your normal cells are more resilient now
and you're gonna get less death of your
normal cells you see what I'm saying
so what happens when you're fasting your
normal cells become more resilient so
you give the chemo only the week guys
die which is the cancer cells because
you've strengthened through this fasting
process your normal cells so I wanted to
do this protocol upstairs Ian's in the
bone marrow unit where we do a lot of
chemotherapy on these patients but no
nobody said okay going to this project
they said we'll be inhumane to tell our
patients to fast before we give them
chemotherapy so what we do we feed them
then we get nauseated then they vomit so
we give them so friend and then we then
they were still down there so then
TPN on them because we've all been
indoctrinated that we have to feed feet
feet feet feet I'm just telling you all
right now if any of you get on my
currently in fashion you get admitted to
the hospital I'm making your NPO I'll
put any fluids on you I'll give you a
make you NPO so even if you do farm at
you're not gonna aspirate you know how
much aspiration is here in the hospital
over here in pneumonia and all that from
aspirin is terrible because I'm forced
feeding you in a sense wait a second
your body is not hungry don't eat but
know the trace get bored too you have to
eat you don't have to if there's a
reason why you have anorexia when you're
sick pay attention to your body your
body's telling you don't eat then don't
need you won't die you might die from
eating so cancer I predict that in the
next five to ten years is going to be
major cancer treatments associated with
adjunct of fasting and that's coming
definitely
it's on its way what else can be useful
autoimmune diseases this numerous
studies to show that you have
inflammatory bowel disease rheumatoid
arthritis lupus any of these conditions
and you get a flare-up of it fast for
three days it's the most potent thing
you can do as an anti-inflammatory
because first and foremost your bowels
are totally quiet there's no energy
being used for digestion
your body's energy resources will be
utilized to repair yourself a lot of
autoimmune diseases start from your gut
as well gives you a gut a chance to heal
so that you get less leaky gut syndrome
so that that fast actually heals it
gives it to your gut a chance to heal as
well autoimmune diseases get better then
what about diabetes diabetes definitely
gets better because I just told you the
insulin resistance gets better
so that gets better what about the
Alzheimer's oh yeah you know poor granny
we can't pull the tray away from her but
sometimes the best thing you could
actually do give you lots of liquids and
don't feed granny for three days
if she's got dementia social services
will be after you it could be anybody
not just a granny but don't beat her for
three days just give a lots of water I
promise you
neurologically she'll start waking up
the fog will go away the confusion will
get better you can't get better and it
should get better and there's no humming
trying because you won't die in three
days
so today water fast so what I mean by
the water fast three day water fast that
means you can only drink water for three
days so drink lots of water now why do
you need to think so much water because
all the reactions occur in water and
secondly you appear lock when you're
fasting I'm not drinking that much I'm
not eating and how come I'm peeing so
much it's because when your insulin
levels go down insulin holds onto water
now there's no more insulin so that
water gets diarist out of your body so
you will notice that you pee a lot so
you need to drink more when you're
fasting there's number one now what what
electrolytes
well electrolytes will be conserved by
your kidneys if kidneys are very good at
holding on to LED lights so there's
plenty LED lights in the body 0:35
sodium if I don't take in sodium
the last molecule of sodium will be
reabsorbed by my tipping's not a single
molecule will be in my urine that's how
good it is
so kidneys will take care of everything
the kidneys will not allow you to lose
sodium or potassium now if you're ready
starting out with a half empty plate
yeah you may get some depletion but you
can get that tested and on refeeding you
I'll give you some clues on how to
improve that when you refill yourself
but it's unusual to get electrolyte
imbalance but if you do get it take a
pinch of salt in the water and you'll
find that your cramps get better and
your dizziness gets better and your
headaches get better so these are
complaints a lot of patients have their
all you know it's fasting but mine after
fifteen hours I had a bad headache we're
going three more water with a little bit
of salt in it and put Himalayan salt
because that also has some magnesium and
other things in it
and you'll feel a lot better dizziness
is usually due to low blood pressure
because your blood pressure comes down
so you get dizzy when you're fasting
it's not because your Sugar's down it's
because your blood pressure's low drink
water and cramps some patient gets
cramps put the salt again and also in
the evening put yourself in a tub of of
epsom salts or you can get some
magnesium and there's there's a liquid
magnesium you can just put on your skin
you can spray it and they'll give you
magnesium and that's what it's all about
so give yourself salt so magnesium
you'll start feeling better patients
said oh I get so hungry
well hunger comes and goes there's a
ghrelin increase in decrease according
to the circadian cicle so all you have
to do is pay attention yes I'm hungry
alright drink some water expand your
stomach and you'll feel better half an
hour later the hungers gone keep your
mind busy get going do something have
your chores get get them done your
hunger will go away patients don't
continue to be hungry all day long it
just doesn't happen if they are craving
is again like I told you they'd be
Pavlovian reflex or they've become a
junkie so hunger comes hunger goes most
patients find the second day the hardest
and then from the third day onward they
actually feel good and the third and
fourth day of fasting fourth day they
feel phenomenal on the fifth day they
they want to go running you want to go
to the gym they feel wonderful so you
got to get over that hump if you really
want to do that tap over fast you have
to know that I'm gonna face a problem
on the second day is gonna be hardest
third fourth fifth day after better so
who should do the wrong fast and who
should just do intermittent fasting so
first and foremost if you just want to
be healthy it wants a day at the most
twice a day in a six to
our window period so that's called time
restricted feeding so if you just want
general maintenance you want to lose a
little bit of weight you want to stay
healthy you don't want to become a
diabetic you don't want diseases of
modern man then start eating less
frequently start learning how to eat
once a day or twice a day in a six-hour
window period so if you're gonna have
lunch at 1 o'clock
you should have dinner at 6 or 7 o'clock
and that's it no snacking in between
because every snack will increase your
insulin levels and it breaks your fast
and your ketogenesis as well so on a
daily basis it will give you a little
bit of a toffee g will give you a little
bit of ketosis and you'll burn fat you
your body will learn how to take food in
when you eating and then burn the
glycogen and then for about 4 hours or
so it will pull out some from the fat so
it took this a nice cycle there then
once a week you can extend that further
by just skipping the evening meal also
so instead of a 24-hour fast it becomes
a 36-hour fast once a week that will
give you a huge boost in your immunity
you'll find you won't get the flu
[Music]
immunity will get better because your
immunise i'ts are now new because your
stem cells have kicked in 36 hours is a
magic number and it's doable to tell
everybody to do a three-day fast it's
kind of tough for a 5 day fast but
people have done this some of my
patients have done 7-day fasts you're
some people with whom I communicate with
my iPhone all the time 14-day fasts but
they're doing it because they absolutely
diseases so they have a lot of chronic
disease that they want to get rid of and
they do it and they're doing it don't
read a lot they'll do a 7 day fast every
six months that's it you don't have to
know the rest of the time they doing
time restricted feeding because they
have these chronic diseases of
Alzheimer's or diabetes or they get
I've had two cancers already or they
want to just lose a lot of weight and
they want to get rid of that high
insulin level so eating in a time
restricted period that's good for all of
us I think that our life revolves around
eating too much and we've been we've
been bamboozled by by industry and by
just all sorts of nonsense out there and
there's a growing community that
understands this so I just want to give
you a little bit of chemistry on our
tically with some chemistry so how does
the body know that you didn't eat
because all of you think oh it's chicken
my sugar will go down that's how my body
knew that I don't need right nice and
Molly do do that your body knows what
you ate how did it know what you ate how
much protein how much fat how much sugar
it's very complicated but one of the
things is your nad which is you're one
of those little molecules inside
yourselves and it looks at the ratio of
nad to NADH and that is determined a lot
by how much fat metabolism is going on
in yourself which occurs in the
mitochondria and how much glycolysis is
occurring in your cytosol long and short
of it you don't need to know all that
all you need to know is your body knows
what you ate so when you are in a
fasting state they mobilize a bunch of
enzymes or proteins called the sirt1
molecules si R T - 1 molecules they go
out in your body in a fasting state and
in that state it binds to a sitar groove
know what's so important about that so
when the Sun is up it binds with acetyl
groups on your histones which are on
your DNA so you all know this is just
follow me on this because this is really
it's exciting because if you know the
knowledge behind this to get excited
about it
and you'll want to do it so you hope
your your your DNA you have your full
set of
you name of which you only express a
fraction less than 1% all the rest of
your DNA is all covered up with the
histones histones are like a spring
that's over your DNA and doesn't expose
it so what the search does it binds to
their star groups and it untwist
histones in certain parts of your DNA so
that that part of the DNA can start
making proteins so it's called
expression your genetic expression
changes because now you're making new
proteins so you see how your diet
affects which genes are now going to be
expressed and those genes make proteins
and that's how they carry out the effect
in your body so the third one actually
activates a gene called the Fox oh three
gene and this Fox
oh three gene activates many other genes
and this is what those genes do is very
exciting it activates all the
antioxidant genes in your body naturally
naturally so you don't need to go buy
vitamin C and vitamin E and all these
things and yeah so what activates Fox o3
also
turmeric does then you think turmeric is
a antioxidant it is but through the
mechanism it turns on a certain gene in
itself it has no antioxidant properties
why why am i doing vitamin 3 d3 levels
on everybody in my office because one of
this the most important vitamin involved
with gene expression is vitamin D if you
vitamin D deficient your gene expression
is handicapped so when things happen to
you
or when you're not eating or when you
get sick your body is genetic material
cannot reveal itself in a normal way
that you're supposed to do just wanna
say about vitamin D you handicap in
yourself in your own ability to repair
your body because your vitamin D
deficient and I can tell you right now
ninety
you I knew in this room a vitamin D
deficient 90% of your vitamins did I can
I can tell you that for sure that's a
all of you have to get your vitamin D
levels done and you need to be taking
vitamin d3 if you are low and you didn't
be sitting in the Sun for 10 minutes
every day you gotta do this you cannot
guess what your vitamin D level is you
need to check it so vitamin D is
involved in over 300 different reactions
and most of them got to do a genetic
expression heck I want to know that
because I want to express my scenes to
the best of their ability and make them
responsive to everything that's going on
so the Fox Oh 3 gene is very important
antioxidant gene then the next gene is
DNA repair so it activates my DNA repair
mechanisms because my DNA is bombarded
every day by radiation by toxins by by
food also and my DNA crumbles every day
that's why I get old so that's no good
so it makes you younger so Fox o3
prepares your DNA makes your telomeres
less short so they stay nice and long
and you know that telomeres are very
important right because the longer they
are the longer you gonna live apoptosis
apoptosis is cell programmed death of
the cells so it controls that clearance
of senescence cells that's a pop that's
a etapa G getting rid of all cells
because you don't all cells hanging on
in your system so old cells get cleared
away as well then protein structure and
maintenance
this is LC mers disease what is the
awesomest exam as the brain cells don't
work pretty good why don't they work
very good because there's a
proteinaceous material that is built up
inside it and that kind of hurts the
mechanisms of your brain cells
that's amyloid amyloid deposition this
is involved with that too and then stem
cell mobilization brain-derived
neurotropic factor all these things I
already mentioned they all through the
Fox all three mechanism you want to get
good Fox oh three you need to have
vitamin D in your system and you need to
be e
the right food and the right food means
no processed foods everything that was
there two and a half million years ago
vegetables some fruit about our talk
about fruits overrated so what happens
is that at the end of the summer and
fall the fruit is bearing there and you
supposed to eat the fruit with all that
fructose to get you through winter but
winter never comes so you keep eating
throughout the year so and you keep
getting in the way so fruits are good
for you but you so see it one food today
that's it and choose the most colorful
fruits again and mix it up a little bit
but please don't donate five six foods a
day I mean let's just this is crazy and
eat fruit that have a low glycemic index
high glycemic index fruits are
watermelon all the melons that you have
all the stuff that they give you when
you order fruit plate in the in the
restaurant that's all that bad stuff all
over there the kiwi fruit in it is bad
the grapes are bad bananas are 50/50 but
the best things are apples peaches plums
apricots those are very healthy for you
right because a lot of fiber and also
low glycemic index so there you go
pears pears are very good so now what
other agent helps you to express your
cert one better it's oh maybe three now
you know why I'm so anal about omega-3
levels they need weight so again I can
promise you not ninety five ninety
percent I think ninety-five percent of
you in this room are probably by omega-3
deficient
now it's not may not be an absolute
deficiency but the ratio of your omega-3
to omega-6 is off it should be ideally
one to one but I bet you most of you
about 20 to 1 because omega-6 is found
in all the vegetable seed oils so what
happens is that this ratio is because
what happens at 3 & 6 compete for the
same substrate so you can be taking
picture of fine but if you're also using
vegetable oil you just dip it
defeated the purpose so Omega 3 also
lengthens your telomeres as that's
vitamin D C simple measures simple
things what else lengthens your TR
telomeres and helps with your with with
your DNA is meditation meditation
actually has been shown to increase your
telomeres and lack of sleep shortens
them and melatonin I'll say something
about melatonin melatonin prevents
cancer but it also turns on Fox o3 so if
you're not getting melatonin and you're
not getting sleep at night you're not
getting rejuvenation now you know the
mechanism of why you get so old because
you're only sleeping three hours a night
or four hours a night or worse still you
doing night shift or and all those
things and therefore your sleep is
totally dysfunctional but very very
important okay so now you know that the
body actually is very intelligent what
you eat immediately starts changing your
genetic expression did you ever think
about that I never thought about that
until I did all this research and
started researching all this about five
six years ago by diet I always thought
that I just changed my hormones by my
memory cholecystokinin my insulin what
my genetic expression changes with every
meal that I ate yes it does it's very
empowering to know that don't forget it
and pass it on so when you eat proteins
you produce a stuff called insulin-like
growth factor-1 now this is a warning
tour of you okay too much protein will
produce too much igf-1 insulin-like
growth factor-1
that turns on mTOR I mentioned them too
earlier on and these are protein kinases
and what this does it stimulates your
ribosomal production to make more
protein which is good so when you eat
protein you make more muscles that's
fine but you also have cell
proliferation
and what that does it increases your
risk of cancers now there's absolutely
no doubt that a high-protein diet
increases the risk of cancer I think
that data is unequivocal it's been shown
in animals and also in some human
studies now the mTOR also decreases @rg
so if you are on a high-protein diet and
you think that you're getting a tapa gee
you've just turned it off because of M
tall because I mentioned that earlier on
in my talk it turns off M tall so how
much protein should you have well not a
lot how much is not a lot well you're
not growing you're not lactating you've
all passed puberty
you know what bodybuilders 0.35 per
pound that's it grams per pound so every
150 so 50 grams of protein that's all I
need and I'm going to get enough of that
in my regular diet taking protein powder
not a good idea not a good idea
cut it out we did it we all did it I did
it for a while you will notice the sugar
levels go up their stability your
instant production as well and it's got
a lot of glucose in it and it will cause
eye gf1 levels to go up and it increases
protein synthesis risk of cancer and
decreases etapa G now I just do that a
tappa G is so important and here this
thing turns it off don't do protein bars
for goodness sake you don't need it and
nature doesn't give you protein on its
own
it gives it to you in the form of me you
want some protein going to eat the meat
you want some protein going eat the
chicken or the fish and make sure it's
nice and lean and not fit on corn
because then you'll get too much omega-6
as well so there you go now
they say so insulin and growth instant
like Pro 30 is just like growth hormone
so there's a group of people out there
in
Equador and they they have the wrong
syndrome which is a gene mutation I
gotta tell you about this what that
means is that they the growth hormone
receptor has a mutation so it doesn't
work very well so these people are very
short the real short little stubby as
well but they live to be a hundred
hundred ten and they have no cancer and
no high blood pressure and it's all to
do with that growth hormone receptor
mutation that is why we say that listen
if you want that type of physiology you
need to cut down on the amount of
protein you know it's overrated because
you go to restaurant and you order your
salad and what's the first question
protein no I don't need any protein in
my salad
thank you but they'll always ask you for
that it's over at night I'm not saying
that you shouldn't add some grilled
chicken to your salad or something you
can do that but take it in the context
of how much protein you're eating during
the day and please don't supplement even
more unless you have illness unless you
have GI problems and you can't always
eat and you're wasting away and your
teeth are really bad and I'm you sick
you might need some protein most of us
don't need it 99% of us don't need it so
in those patients they have very low
insulin levels very low instant like
growth factor levels and there you go so
you have less diabetes less can say in
those patients so different diets turn
these genes on and off when you eat
sugar you turn on a gene called Ras -
PKA
it's crazy so this is a protein kinase
as well and what does that do again it
turns off etapa G increases the
production of your insulin and basically
makes you more inflammatory because it
turns off all those things so you become
inflammatory sugar causes inflammation
in the body
fructose causes insulin resistance in
the liver I went over that with you or
before so sugar is very very bad for you
sugar is a poison sugar is not natural
sugar was never found in nature it's a
totally processed food it's processed
it's as processed food as all the other
processed foods that we eat it's just as
but but people think should is just its
natural sugar you know it's sugar well
it's not sugar it's process is totally
process is no such thing as sugar
it's totally processed so if you don't
want cancer heart disease diabetes
deserve the joint disease inflammatory
conditions of the bowels then don't get
old
don't get oh now why did I say that
because there's a lot of truth to what
I'm going to say here okay so all these
conditions are conditions that occur in
aging if you can slow down aging you
won't get those conditions so what is
the best way to stay young your genetic
material and for you to constantly stay
young but I told you already how to do
that
fasting keep your weight down eat the
right foods your genetic material stay
young you stay younger you're not going
to get those five conditions if you get
prematurely old and by your way we're
getting old fast it's 30 rolls and 9 and
20 year olds coming into my office then
they're already 50 years old because of
the lifestyle what they eating their
lifestyle their sleep patterns their
stress patterns so don't get all so
everything that I'm saying is also
anti-aging so now does that mean I'm an
anti-aging doctor I am
but there's a lot of other people out
there also doing anti-aging but I'm a
different anti-aging kind of doctor I do
more naturally and I know the science
behind it so I'm not gonna tell you to
go and you know take the special cream
and put it on you and eat the special
concoction because how natural is all
that just how natural is that I mean if
you want to be natural then you don't
walk away from from one of those
providers with a bag load of drugs and
creams and and other things I mean how
natural is that I have nothing to sell
you I got nothing I have a vitamin D in
my office
I got vitamin k2 by the way you all
should be on vitamin k2 as well what is
vitamin k2 and k2 takes the calcium
takes it out of the over all of your
tissues and puts it back into the bone
weights below so how come you got
vitamin k2 deficiency because your we're
on that low-fat diet right so it's
absorbed through fat you don't have fat
you're not good absorb vitamin K you
don't have fat you know car buyers
absorve item indeed how do you think you
are became vitamin D deficient because
we went on the slow fat craze no factors
low fat that so it compounded your
nutritional deficiency when you went on
a high carb diet which is what the
government told us to do because what we
did we went on a low-fat diet and
substitute it all with carbs you also
became nutritionally a desert because
you didn't get all the good things look
when you eat natural fats in natural
ways let's say you had a piece of fish
you eat meat or eating vegetables it
comes with everything in it so your adek
will get absorbed with the natural fat
you need it you need it and that's how
it's gonna get absorb because that's how
it was two and a half million years ago
who are you to try to change this in the
last millisecond of your life in your
evolution okay so let's talk about that
how many generations
well before you because that was look
that that will be an eye-opener for you
I have it written down here somewhere in
my notes how many generations have gone
by is it's a real eye-opener oh man
whether I write it oh yeah oh yeah he
goes so in the two and a half million
years there were a hundred thousand
generations and each generation improves
on these genetic materials 100,000
generations and then they produced the
Homo Sapien how many generations were in
the agricultural time since the
Agricultural thing happened only six
hundred generations so six hundred
generations have been eating there the
benefits of the agricultural revolution
and what about the Industrial Revolution
which changed it even more because
remember much of the agricultural was
okay actually because the grains were
kind of whole but in the industrial
revolution how many generations have
gone by only ten only ten you have no
chance of survival because your genetic
material has another chance to even just
sort of in ten generations
so you drastically change the way you
live you drastically change your diet
and you expect ten generations to
drastically change your genetic material
now if you're lucky and you procreate
wisely there may be another thousand
generations from now your kids will
adapt to this new diet but right now you
stand a chance you see what I'm saying
keep stay on this diet stay on this
lifestyle and after another thousand
maybe two thousand three thousand
generations the new human being will
have adapted to today's food you won't
stand a chance
so there you go all right so do how much
more time do I have I have a little bit
more time so I want to give you a few
more a few more hints so they hit on on
on fasting and and things to say about
fasting so I already talked about the
biochemical changes and I told you how
so the first thing you need to do if
your honor anyone wants to start a
fasting program is to cut down on your
carbohydrates you cannot jump into a
fasting program with a regular diet you
have to first be carb conditioned you
need to cut down on unknown processed
foods no processed foods
nothing unnatural anything that's
refined no sugar no drinks except for
water and tea and coffee and by the way
when you're fasting you can have tea and
coffee and all that but without the milk
or cream you can add a little bit of
coconut if you want coconut oil that is
or m/c tol because that was that will
give you some satisfaction and take away
your hunger for a while so that's very
important I want to say oh yes I want to
say this refeeding syndrome so let's say
you one of you did decide to do a three
day or four day fast I warn you that
when you start eating again you may have
a problem because what'll happen is that
if you have phosphate deficient because
you are nutritionally already eating the
standard American diet the set dial then
you don't have enough phosphate in your
body and your bones are the biggest
storage of phosphate and most of us have
osteopenia how come you have so much
just opinion this 3000 women that come
to my office er a vast opinion
how come it's terrible living in Florida
all of us to fear it's terrible so
obviously when she does her refeeding
she's gonna get phosphate deficiency
because what happens all of a sudden
stem cells going if they need building
blocks and one of the building blocks is
phosphate to replace the cells that have
died and so if you get faster so you get
tremendous muscle weakness and muscle
aching and that's from phosphate
deficiency and that can happen so when
that happens you need to go and get some
bone
so all of you should know how to make
some room broth if you've made it
Indians have been doing it for years
but you know just put some bones in
there and how to cook the bone broth you
should know how to make one now if
you're rich then you can make it out of
vegetables too but it's very very
helpful and even doing a fast if you
absolutely have to do anything you can
have some bone broth during a fast okay
bone broth because it's got alot glycine
in it and it's got phosphate it's got a
lot of minerals in it and that will
really help even the magnesium so it'll
help you overcome some of your problems
to learn about bone broth and don't buy
ready-made bone broth make it yourself
by the way there's lots of recipes now
on the low-carb diet out what kind of
breakfast lunch a donate whatever you
want to cook is available bone broth how
to make it my favorite book that I use
is Jason funds book right Jason Fong fu
ng he's the is the nephrologist up in
Canada and he sees all this really
heavy-duty diabetics and he is it as
amazing world but you see he's learned
all these tricks to make success so the
potassium can for magnesium can fall and
phosphate so refeeding just be careful
use bone broth during that time I
already mentioned all the side effects
which I okay coffee tea I mentioned the
tea and black tea but medicines yes when
you are when you're doing fasting it
depends which medicine now if you're
taking diabetes medications and I'm
telling you or if you're taking diabetes
medications they will cause a drop in
your sugar level and it could be a
dangerous dropping available especially
incident should not be take them and
glad you're right click beside those
agents should not be taken but don't do
that without your physician knowing
you've got to involve your physician if
your diabetic patient your physician is
nobody if you're finishing doesn't want
to know about it and doesn't approve of
you being fasting though maybe you need
to find another one you see because and
I look it's not bad I look physicians
are great but we taught to treat illness
get sick and I don't know what to do
with you but you want to stay healthy
heck I don't know that's the problem we
have so it's not that they don't want to
help you it's just that they don't know
they've never been there to handle that
kind of situation I'll tell you what I
do with my patients ok I stop the
insulin right there normally insulin and
I stop glad to ride or any other agent
that drops the blood sugar except for
metformin I keep them on their phone and
then I tell them to measure the blood
sugars and for three days or two days
they may have high blood sugar but
that's not going to hurt them that's not
going to hurt them so if you look at
what hurts you the most it's a high
insulin level that hurts you more if
your glucose level is a little bit high
okay
that'd make like ate some of your
proteins but it's temporary it's not
going to hurt you in the long term but
insulin will hurt you so that's her gone
and for most of them after their fasted
they feel a lot better and they they can
come off insulin they should be able to
come off in some but you can you know
the trouble with physicians is and
myself included we're so busy then
ideally I'd like to see you going on a
fast and then I'll see you today because
we discussed it I'd like to see you
again in a couple of days at least now
if I'm going to stop your instant I
might want you to take a blood sugar
every day every day at least four times
and report to my office call the office
tell the nurse my sugar is doing this
that that and have a very close
follow-up on that trouble is that our
system is so broken that most physicians
can't do that really if they try to do
that they'll go broke because there's no
reimbursement for any of this stuff it's
really terrible but that's what I'm
saying
keep click find a physician that you can
at least talk with frequently when see
frequently if you can't want to come off
diabetes
occasions now all the other medications
blood pressure medication you should
take everything else but you measure
your blood pressure you gotta take
things into your own hands because
nobody is gonna do it except you you
must take control of your life we have
become a society where we go to the
doctor and say fix me no you got to do
it yourself you must take your blood
sugars every day get your ketone sticks
over there get your blood pressure
machines start taking your blood
pressures if your preparation starts
going below 100 you call the DA tales of
our prep it's just little Justin it'll
be our base attack oh no stop the base
attack good fine done and that's what
happens actually so it's hard to predict
who's going to talk the profession who's
not but generally speaking you gotta be
very vigilant and you need a doctor that
you can quickly approach or a walk-in
clinic that you can walk into that's why
I have of my walking clinic right people
can walk in and yeah the matter that
might have to wait back please they're
gonna be seen and if I'm tied up at
least my practitioners will take care of
the patients so your blood pressure will
drop because you become volume depleted
or because of of your physiology
changing the physiology is changing them
so your blood pressure is dropping so
yeah you can come off look high blood
pressure sugar high triglycerides and
low HDL are all part of metabolic
syndrome
this makes metabolic syndrome better
your your blood pressure will come down
yes sugar will come down your tract this
edge will come down and your HDL will go
up I told you all before that the lipid
abnormalities that you see very few of
them are primary lipid abnormalities the
rest are all reflections of your glucose
metabolism that has gone haywire so the
most important things to look for on
your lipid panel is not your LDL it's
your triglycerides and HDL and the ratio
of HDL to triglycerides if it's off you
have a sugar problem even though your
sugar is good or your hemoglobin a1c is
good
if your triglycerides are high and your
HDL low and the ratio is great
than two you probably have like insulin
levels and that needs to be determined
and the treatment of high insulin levels
today is faster
changing your diet and doing intimate
now what do I do six months download
pigeon comes to me says oh I've lost all
this weight look I feel great now I'm
down on my medications I'm hardly taking
anything now I will repeat his insulin
if they are good I'll say you know what
things are much better now you don't
have to be so crazy about your diet
anymore but automatically most of them
still do time to stick to feeding
because they love it they feel so good
doing it so there if you go back to
eating five days five times a day you
know so you know so very important that
we did this I wanted to mention
something else - yes so the you know
studies are very hard in humans but I
wanted to show you one study that was
done in monkeys about fasting so they
took the monkeys the rhesus monkeys
which would be very closely related to
them they deserve more respect I think
rhesus monkeys so they took the
experimental group gave them 30 percent
less calories the standard teaching for
for weight loss 30 percent less calories
right so 30 percent less calories and
the control group they gave them milk
protein corn oil sugar and unlimited
feeding times pretty much like an
American diet
that is the control group and then what
they did is they looked at the outcome
at five years in these deceased monkeys
there was 20% those who had restricted
calories the 30% rested to terrorists
they lived 26% more than the control
group 50% less cardiovascular disease
and greater than 90 percent no diabetes
just by cutting calories down our food
is so full of calories the more calories
you eat the more disease you're gonna
get this absolutely know that so now the
NIH they don't want to be outdone so
they did a study they also did 30%
caloric restriction but in the control
group now watch what they did in the
control group they gave them plant
proteins no animal protein except for
little bit of fish 5% fat only so we
gave them some fat 4% sugar in their
diet and they will only fed twice a day
and what did they find what do you think
detected that did those monkeys do
better than the 30% caloric restriction
or do you think it was as good as the
caloric restriction they do better yeah
so so again it's your diet so just
simply cutting down on 30% calories is
not the way to go it's no longer
calories in calories out it's how your
body reacts to the calories and what
calories go in it's your hormonal
response how you respond hormonal e and
how you respond to your genetic
expression so be careful what goes past
the tongue because that's going to
determine your future and you know I
always like questions and answers so I'm
going to stop right there but today's
main message is if you want to do a
serious fast talk to somebody who knows
a lot about fasting do it with somebody
talk to your doctor if you own diabetes
medications of blood
medications if you want to simply
replicate the Paleolithic way eat once a
day or twice a day only do it in a time
restricted fashion all of you can do it
all of it
you don't need medical permission to do
that the only time I'm telling you to
seek my help is if you know three day
five day or seven day water fast or even
more water fast
all right and there's a lot of books
that you all can read especially Jason
thumb's book and and if there any other
questions by the way as I said before
this talk I'll put my slides in there
and then post it on to YouTube Galen
foundation wants to continue doing stuff
like this
so my next one I'm gonna talk about all
sorts of things including sleep over the
whole topic on sleep they're not being
who improve your sleep this so I want to
do that but you know Galen needs help as
usual so any help you can give Galen
foundation is really it's a pepper 1/3 C
and if you know people who would like to
help this type of organization ask them
to help us out as well of course they
can come to our talks and our websites
as well